Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we were supposed to have Senator Marnoni of
Oklahoma on this program with us today to talk about the school bill that is being considered
right now on the floor of the Senate for both school construction.
And Senator Marnoni is amendment to see that some grandin' aid is made to the states to
be distributed by the states without any strings attached to help with increasing or
paying something on teacher salaries.
Senator Marnoni is speaking now and the amendment will come up for a vote very soon.
I stepped away to come on down to report to you.
In his place I have with my very handsome and personable administrative assistant, Charlie
Calwell, who will ask some questions about the legislation we've been considering this
week in the Senate.
Well, I'm kind of a poor last minute substitute for Senator Marnoni.
But we'll have him back next week and we'll let the viewers of this station compare you
and Senator Marnoni.
Senator, you supported the amendment that would give states the opportunity to use some
of the federal money for schools towards teacher salaries and what happened to that amendment
last night.
Well, we start off with the administration had proposed some lending program which for
school construction which was defeated.
And we had the Senator McNamara Bill for just school construction, $500 million over
a period of years.
Senator Clark of Pennsylvania offered an amendment to have $1,100,100,000 to be divided by the
states and their usual proportion between school construction and teacher salary.
That was defeated, $44,000 to $45,000, and the vice president voted and broke the tie
so it was defeated, $45,000 to $44,000.
And lost by that very narrow margin late last night.
I spoke for the amendment as my colleague Senator Gore because we feel that education
is the greatest importance right now not only because of our contest with the Soviet Union
but for our general welfare.
And you can have all the schools in the world but unless we have a start paying our teachers
more than what might just pay a fireman, we're not going to have good education.
It's absolutely imperative.
Senator, have you had any expressions of support from the state of Tennessee for this bill?
Yes, I certainly have.
I've had a good letter from Governor Ellington in support of it.
I've had many much factual information from Commissioner Joe Morgan.
They tell us the education association is actively far ahead.
Teachers, parents, members of the parent teachers association.
And what do you think Senator of the charge that the opponents of the bill have made that
this bill would lead to federal control of the schools?
Well, I don't think that's well-founded.
We've had the moral plan that found help with universities or what any federal control.
We've had the PWA program for school construction.
And if said in the amendment and in the bill itself that there shall be no federal control
that the money is a grant and aid to the states for them to use for school construction and
for teachers.
And the federal government has no right to have any administrative control, control of
curriculum or anything else of that kind.
In the few moments we have left, Senator, would you tell us about the SJ Res 39 about the
congressional seats that was passed this last year?
Well, before we end, I hope by the time this telecast is seen that we will have passed this
national aid to education bill in the United States Senate and becomes law.
Well, we passed a very important constitutional amendment last week.
I think I discussed the part of the amendment that I filed originally to enable governors
to temporarily fill vacancies in the House of Representatives and they have been of a national
disaster, so our Congress could go on.
Two, that was added, the Holland amendment to make to take away the requirement of a
poll tax for voting for federal officials and the four or five states that still have it.
And also the Keating Amendment to give some right of the people of the district to vote
for national electors for President and Vice President.
I believe, Charlie, that's all the time we have.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.